# Background
When search engines like Google display search results, they do so by placing more “important” and higher-quality pages higher in the search results than less important pages. But how does the search engine know which pages are more important than other pages?

One heuristic might be that an “important” page is one that many other pages link to, since it’s reasonable to imagine that more sites will link to a higher-quality webpage than a lower-quality webpage. We could therefore imagine a system where each page is given a rank according to the number of incoming links it has from other pages, and higher ranks would signal higher importance.

But this definition isn’t perfect: if someone wants to make their page seem more important, then under this system, they could simply create many other pages that link to their desired page to artificially inflate its rank.

For that reason, the PageRank algorithm was created by Google’s co-founders (including Larry Page, for whom the algorithm was named). In PageRank’s algorithm, a website is more important if it is linked to by other important websites, and links from less important websites have their links weighted less. This definition seems a bit circular, but it turns out that there are multiple strategies for calculating these rankings.

# Understanding

Open up pagerank.py. Notice first the definition of two constants at the top of the file: DAMPING represents the damping factor and is initially set to 0.85. SAMPLES represents the number of samples we’ll use to estimate PageRank using the sampling method, initially set to 10,000 samples.

Now, take a look at the main function. It expects a command-line argument, which will be the name of a directory of a corpus of web pages we’d like to compute PageRanks for. The crawl function takes that directory, parses all of the HTML files in the directory, and returns a dictionary representing the corpus. The keys in that dictionary represent pages (e.g., "2.html"), and the values of the dictionary are a set of all of the pages linked to by the key (e.g. {"1.html", "3.html"}).

The main function then calls the sample_pagerank function, whose purpose is to estimate the PageRank of each page by sampling. The function takes as arguments the corpus of pages generated by crawl, as well as the damping factor and number of samples to use. Ultimately, sample_pagerank should return a dictionary where the keys are each page name and the values are each page’s estimated PageRank (a number between 0 and 1).

The main function also calls the iterate_pagerank function, which will also calculate PageRank for each page, but using the iterative formula method instead of by sampling. The return value is expected to be in the same format, and we would hope that the output of these two functions should be similar when given the same corpus!
